There is an international English language testing system called IELTS, and I want you score 
the writing task based on the its own assessment criteria given below, but first you need to 
follow the instructions. After you learned the assessment criteria, I am going to give you the 
prompt(the question asked to the candidate) and his/her answer for the prompt(the text 
itself). Then, I am going to ask you to score it for that given question based on the things you learned.

Writing Task
Examiners use assessment criteria to award a band score for each of the four criteria:
1.	Task Response (TR)
2.	Coherence and Cohesion (CC)
3.	Lexical Resource (LR)
4.	Grammatical Range and Accuracy (GRA)

The criteria are weighted equally and the score on the task is the average. Moreover, the 
band score must be between 1-9 in terms of their own criteria. I am going to share all 
assessment criteria and their band score that should match to.

TASK RESPONSE (TR) 
Both AC and GT Writing tests, candidates are required to formulate and develop a position in 
relation to a given prompt in the form of a question or statement, using a minimum of 250 
words. Ideas should be supported by evidence, and examples may be drawn from a 
candidate's own experience. 
*	how fully the candidate responds to the task. 
*	how adequately the main ideas are extended and supported. 
*	how relevant the candidate's ideas are to the task. 
*	how clearly the candidate opens the discourse, establishes their position and 
formulates conclusions. 
*	how appropriate the format of the response is to the task

===============
Task Response (TR)	
For Band Score: 9 
The prompt is appropriately addressed and explored in depth. A clear and fully developed 
position is presented which directly answers the question/s. Ideas are relevant, fully 
extended and well supported. Any lapses in content or support are extremely rare.


For Band Score: 8
The prompt is appropriately and sufficiently addressed. A clear and well-developed position 
is presented in response to the question/s. Ideas are relevant, well extended and supported. 
There may be occasional omissions or lapses in content.

For Band Score: 7
The main parts of the prompt are appropriately addressed. A clear and developed position is 
presented. Main ideas are extended and supported but there may be a tendency to over-
generalise or there may be a lack of focus and precision in supporting ideas/material.



For Band Score: 6
The main parts of the prompt are addressed (though some may be more fully covered than 
others). An appropriate format is used. A position is presented that is directly relevant to the 
prompt, although the conclusions drawn may be unclear, unjustified or repetitive. Main 
ideas are relevant, but some may be insufficiently developed or may lack clarity, while some 
supporting arguments and evidence may be less relevant or inadequate.

For Band Score: 5
The main parts of the prompt are incompletely addressed. The format may be inappropriate 
in places. The writer expresses a position, but the development is not always clear. Some 
main ideas are put forward, but they are limited and are not sufficiently developed and/or 
there may be irrelevant detail. There may be some repetition.


For Band Score: 4
The prompt is tackled in a minimal way, or the answer is tangential, possibly due to some 
misunderstanding of the prompt. The format may be inappropriate. A position is discernible, 
but the reader has to read carefully to find it. Main ideas are difficult to identify and such 
ideas that are identifiable may lack relevance, clarity and/or support. Large parts of the 
response may be repetitive.

For Band Score: 3
No part of the prompt is adequately addressed, or the prompt has been misunderstood. No 
relevant position can be identified, and/or there is little direct response to the question/s. 
There are few ideas, and these may be irrelevant or insufficiently developed.

For Band Score: 2
The content is barely related to the prompt. No position can be identified. There may be 
glimpses of one or two ideas without development

For Band Score: 1
Responses of 20 words or fewer are rated at Band 1. The content is wholly unrelated to the 
prompt. Any copied rubric must be discounted.
 
===============
Coherence & Cohesion (CC)
For Band Score: 9 
The message can be followed effortlessly. Cohesion is used in such a way that it very rarely 
attracts attention. Any lapses in coherence or cohesion are minimal. Paragraphing is skilfully 
managed.

For Band Score: 8
The message can be followed with ease. Information and ideas are logically sequenced, and 
cohesion is well managed. Occasional lapses in coherence and cohesion may occur. 
Paragraphing is used sufficiently and appropriately.
For Band Score: 7
Information and ideas are logically organised, and there is a clear progression throughout 
the response. (A few lapses may occur, but these are minor.) A range of cohesive devices 
including reference and substitution is used flexibly but with some inaccuracies or some 
over/under use. Paragraphing is generally used effectively to support overall coherence, and 
the sequencing of ideas within a paragraph is generally logical.


For Band Score: 6
Information and ideas are generally arranged coherently and there is a clear overall 
progression. Cohesive devices are used to some good effect but cohesion within and/or 
between sentences may be faulty or mechanical due to misuse, overuse or omission. The 
use of reference and substitution may lack flexibility or clarity and result in some repetition 
or error. Paragraphing may not always be logical and/or the central topic may not always be 
clear.


For Band Score: 5
Organisation is evident but is not wholly logical and there may be a lack of overall 
progression. Nevertheless, there is a sense of underlying coherence to the response. The 
relationship of ideas can be followed but the sentences are not fluently linked to each other. 
There may be limited/overuse of cohesive devices with some inaccuracy. The writing may be 
repetitive due to inadequate and/or inaccurate use of reference and substitution. 
Paragraphing may be inadequate or missing.


For Band Score: 4
Information and ideas are evident but not arranged coherently and there is no clear 
progression within the response. Relationships between ideas can be unclear and/or 
inadequately marked. There is some use of basic cohesive devices, which may be inaccurate 
or repetitive. There is inaccurate use or a lack of substitution or referencing. There may be 
no paragraphing and/or no clear main topic within paragraphs.


For Band Score: 3
There is no apparent logical organisation. Ideas are discernible but difficult to relate to each 
other. There is minimal use of sequencers or cohesive devices. Those used do not necessarily 
indicate a logical relationship between ideas. There is difficulty in identifying referencing. 
Any attempts at paragraphing are unhelpful.


For Band Score: 2
There is little relevant message, or the entire response may be off-topic. There is little 
evidence of control of organisational features.



For Band Score: 1
Responses of 20 words or fewer are rated at Band 1. The writing fails to communicate any 
message and appears to be by a virtual non-writer.

===============
Lexical Resource (LR)
For Band Score: 9 
Full flexibility and precise use are widely evident. A wide range of vocabulary is used 
accurately and appropriately with very natural and sophisticated control of lexical features. 
Minor errors in spelling and word formation are extremely rare and have minimal impact on 
communication.


For Band Score: 8
A wide resource is fluently and flexibly used to convey precise meanings. There is skilful use 
of uncommon and/or idiomatic items when appropriate, despite occasional inaccuracies in 
word choice and collocation. Occasional errors in spelling and/or word formation may occur, 
but have minimal impact on communication.


For Band Score: 7
The resource is sufficient to allow some flexibility and precision. There is some ability to use 
less common and/or idiomatic items. An awareness of style and collocation is evident, 
though in appropriacies occur. There are only a few errors in spelling and/or word formation 
and they do not detract from overall clarity.

For Band Score: 6
The resource is generally adequate and appropriate for the task. The meaning is generally 
clear in spite of a rather restricted range or a lack of precision in word choice. If the writer is 
a risk-taker, there will be a wider range of vocabulary used but higher degrees of inaccuracy 
or inappropriacy. There are some errors in spelling and/or word formation, but these do not 
impede communication.

For Band Score: 5
The resource is limited but minimally adequate for the task. Simple vocabulary may be used 
accurately but the range does not permit much variation in expression. There may be 
frequent lapses in the appropriacy of word choice and a lack of flexibility is apparent in 
frequent simplifications and/or repetitions. Errors in spelling and/or word formation may be 
noticeable and may cause some difficulty for the reader.

For Band Score: 4
The resource is limited and inadequate for or unrelated to the task. Vocabulary is basic and 
may be used repetitively. There may be inappropriate use of lexical chunks (e.g. memorised 
phrases, formulaic language and/or language from the input material). Inappropriate word 
choice and/or errors in word formation and/or in spelling may impede meaning.

For Band Score: 3
The resource is inadequate (which may be due to the response being significantly under 
length). Possible over-dependence on input material or memorised language. Control of 
word choice and/or spelling is very limited, and errors predominate. These errors may 
severely impede meaning.

For Band Score: 2
The resource is extremely limited with few recognisable strings, apart from memorised 
phrases. There is no apparent control of word formation and/or spelling.


For Band Score: 1
Responses of 20 words or fewer are rated at Band 1. No resource is apparent, except for a 
few isolated words.

===============
Grammatical Range & Accuracy (GRA)
For Band Score: 9 
A wide range of structures is used with full flexibility and control. Punctuation and grammar 
are used appropriately throughout. Minor errors are extremely rare and have minimal 
impact on communication.

For Band Score: 8
A wide range of structures is flexibly and accurately used. The majority of sentences are 
error-free, and punctuation is well managed. Occasional, non-systematic errors and in 
appropriacies occur, but have minimal impact on communication.

For Band Score: 7
A variety of complex structures is used with some flexibility and accuracy. Grammar and 
punctuation are generally well controlled, and error-free sentences are frequent. A few 
errors in grammar may persist, but these do not impede communication.


For Band Score: 6
A mix of simple and complex sentence forms is used but flexibility is limited. Examples of 
more complex structures are not marked by the same level of accuracy as in simple 
structures. Errors in grammar and punctuation occur, but rarely impede communication.


For Band Score: 5
The range of structures is limited and rather repetitive. Although complex sentences are 
attempted, they tend to be faulty, and the greatest accuracy is achieved on simple 
sentences. Grammatical errors may be frequent and cause some difficulty for the reader. 
Punctuation may be faulty.


For Band Score: 4
A very limited range of structures is used. Subordinate clauses are rare and simple sentences 
predominate. Some structures are produced accurately but grammatical errors are frequent 
and may impede meaning. Punctuation is often faulty or inadequate.


For Band Score: 3
Sentence forms are attempted, but errors in grammar and punctuation predominate (except 
in memorised phrases or those taken from the input material). This prevents most meaning 
from coming through. Length may be insufficient to provide evidence of control of sentence 
forms.


For Band Score: 2
There is little or no evidence of sentence forms (except in memorised phrases).

For Band Score: 1
Responses of 20 words or fewer are rated at Band 1. No rateable language is evident.



